hi i'm alex from e2 language
in this video i'm going to talk about
ielts reading
on the computer let's go
in this quick video i'm going to tell
you eight important things you need to
know
and at the end i'm going to show you two
places where you can practice
all the ielts reading tasks
first things first some things are
exactly the same as the paper delivered
test
that is the length the sections the
number of questions
so you're going to have 60 minutes three
sections
40 questions
number two there is free movement within
all of the sections of the reading test
what i mean is
when you start the reading test you can
move to section 3
back to section 1 go to section 2 click
on question 1
click on question 38 and change your
answers
at any time during the 60 minutes
the third thing is about the
functionality of the computer delivered
reading test
two things you should know is that you
can change the
size of the text you can make it bigger
or smaller
and you can also change the color of the
background so you can make it white
or off-white or something in between
the fourth thing is also a kind of
functionality
tool you can highlight on the screen
and you can also take notes on the
screen and these are two
really useful functions on test day
number five you also get a piece of
paper
and a pen so if you want to take notes
or scribble down
answers as you're going you can do that
just remember that that
paper gets taken off you before the next
part of the test
number six i'm sorry to report that
control f
the find function does not work on the
computer delivered test so
you can't use that
number seven capital letters can i write
in all capitals well
ielts official tells us to follow
capitalization
convention which means basically if the
word is in
small letters in the text then when you
fill the gap on your answer sheet
it should also be in small letters
however
other people tell us anything goes when
it comes to capital letters
best practice and what we would
recommend you know in the real world
is follow the capitalization rules for
ielts reading
whenever you're filling the gaps just
use exactly what is in the text
and write that into the gap no brainer
now the final and probably most
important thing i want to share with you
is
how the questions look on the computer
delivered test
some of them are fairly similar like for
example
multiple choice on the paper delivered
test you have to write the letter
a b or c but on the computer delivered
of course you're just going to click
the button the instructions will tell
you choose the correct answer
and you just click on it
when you're filling in the gaps
obviously you just type your answer
directly
into the sentence there's no answer
sheet that you need to transfer answers
to true false not given yes no not given
they're also
a little bit simpler on the computer
rather than
write the word true or the word not
given the word's not given you just
click
a button click a button for yes or no or
not given it's much simpler
but a couple of the question types are
quite different to the paper delivered
let's talk about headings match so on
the paper delivered version headings
match
involves taking the roman numeral that
little eye
the little eye or v and writing that
onto your answer sheet
on the computer delivered test drag and
drop
actually much simpler
match information and match features
also look quite different on the
computer delivered version
rather than writing the correct
paragraph
name let's say it's match information
the instructions say
which paragraph contains this
information rather than write the
paragraph letter
you're going to click in a table like
this
so if you're preparing for the computer
delivered ielts a good idea to practice
all those question types in the computer
delivered format and have two places you
should go
first one is the official ielts site you
can find it in the description below
and the second one wouldn't you know e2
language
jump onto our website and you can find
all of the question types
under the reading tab in the computer
delivered format
also check out our brand new methods
videos
they show you how a question looks in
the paper delivered format
and in the computer delivered format
so simply make a free account and you
can have a look through all of the
questions and while you're there
register for some live classes and i
will see you there
bye for now